
## Sections

- Quick presentation
- Mixing clips
- Clips transformations and effects
- How to be efficient with MoviePy
- Working with matplotlib
- Audio in MoviePy
- Creating and exporting video clips



### Quick presentation

Do I need MoviePy?

Here's a few use cases:

- You have many videos to process or to compose in a complicated way.
- You want to automatize the creation of videos or GIFs on a web server (Django, Flask, etc.)
- You want to automatize tedious tasks, like title insertions tracking objects, cuting scenes, making end credits, subtitles, etc…
- You want to code your own video effects to do something no existing video editor can.
- You want to create animations from images generated by another python library (Matplotlib, Mayavi, Gizeh, scikit-images…)


And here are a few uses for which MoviePy is NOT the best solution:

- You only need to do frame-by-frame video analysis (with face detection or other fancy stuff). This could be done with MoviePy in association with other libraries, but really, just use imageio, OpenCV or SimpleCV, these are libraries that specialize in these tasks.
- You only want to convert a video file, or turn a series of image files into a movie. In this case it is better to directly call ffmpeg (or avconv or mencoder…) it will be faster more memory-efficient than going through MoviePy.


Advantages and limitations

- **Simple an intuitive.** Basic operations can be done in one line. The code is easy to learn and easy to understand for newcomers.

- **Flexible.** You have total control over the frames of the video and audio, and creating your own effects is easy as Py.

- **Portable.** The code uses very common software (Numpy and FFMPEG) and can run on (almost) any machine with (almost) any version of Python.

- For the limitations: MoviePy cannot (yet) stream videos (read from a webcam, or render a video live on a distant machine), and is not really designed for video processing involving many successive frames of a movie (like video stabilization, you’ll need another software for that). You can also have memory problems if you use many video, audio, and image sources at the same time (>100), but this will be fixed in future versions.


Example code

In a typical MoviePy script, you load video or audio files, modify them, put them together, and write the final result to a new video file. As an example, let us load a video of my last holidays, lower the volume, add a title in the center of the video for the first ten seconds, and write the result in a file:

```python
# Import everything needed to edit video clips
from moviepy.editor import *

# Load myHolidays.mp4 and select the subclip 00:00:50 - 00:00:60
clip = VideoFileClip("myHolidays.mp4").subclip(50,60)

# Reduce the audio volume (volume x 0.8)
clip = clip.volumex(0.8)

# Generate a text clip. You can customize the font, color, etc.
txt_clip = TextClip("My Holidays 2013",fontsize=70,color='white')

# Say that you want it to appear 10s at the center of the screen
txt_clip = txt_clip.set_pos('center').set_duration(10)

# Overlay the text clip on the first video clip
video = CompositeVideoClip([clip, txt_clip])

# Write the result to a file (many options available !)
video.write_videofile("myHolidays_edited.webm")
```


How MoviePy works

- Uses **ffmpeg** to read and export audio and video files
- Can use **ImageMagick** to generate texts and write GIFs
- After loading, uses libs like **numpy, scipy, opencv and PIL** to process


Basic concepts

- Central objects are **clips**, i.e. **AudioClips** and **MovieClips**
- They can be modified (cut, slow down, darken...)
- They can be mixed with other clips
- They can be previewed (with **pygame** or **IPython notebook**)


Example effects

- clip.resize(width="360")
- clip.subclip(time_1, time_2)
- clip.fx(vfx.black_white)
- or by a user-created effect
- MoviePy implements many functions like ```flip.fl``` and ```flip.fx``` which make it very easy to code your own effect in a few lines


You may find advanced things in **moviepy.video.tools**, e.g.:
- track objects in a video
- draw simple shapes and color gradients (useful for masks)
- generate subtitles and end credits
- etc


Finally


### Mixing clips


### Clips transformations and effects


### How to be efficient with MoviePy


### Working with matplotlib


### Audio in MoviePy


### Creating and exporting video clips
